docs: template context (#852)
asyncapi/generator: docs/template-context.md

> ---

Reviewer: A few notes, @Florence-Njeri 😄✌🏽:
- Remember to be **consistent**. Since you have not capitalized the `generator` tool, let's stick to writing it in lowercase.
- I know sometimes it can feel confusing, wondering whether or not to capitalize words. (Ex: object, parser, etc.) But you should **only capitalize the first word of a sentence and for all proper nouns** _(words that name a specific person, place, organization, or thing)_

Author: Alright. Thank you

> title: "Template Context"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Template context"
```

weight: 80
---

> While using the generator tool you may want dynamic values to be populated to your templates and thus be rendered in the output. The generator is able to achieve that using the **template context**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While using the generator tool, you may want dynamic values to be populated to your templates and rendered in the output. The generator can achieve that using the **template context**.
```

> The **template context** allows you to access the contents of the [AsyncAPI document](asyncapi-document.md) and inject dynamic values to the template files passed to the asyncAPI CLI during the generation process. The render engine will then display these dynamically assigned values in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **template context** allows you to access the contents of the [AsyncAPI document](asyncapi-document.md) and inject dynamic values to the template files passed to the asyncAPI CLI during the generation process. The render engine then displays these dynamically assigned values in the output.
```

> ## Template context generation process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generation process
```

Since this doc's title is already "template context," I don't think this header needs that phrase included again.

> 1. The **Generator** receives **Template** and **params** as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **Generator** receives the **Template** and **params** as input.
```

Author: In the generation process, Lukasz said to capitalize all the words in diagram e.g Parser, Template Context so the reader can easily understand the diagram. Similar to pull request 812

Reviewer 2: yes, as this content describes the process show on diagram,  so capitalization has to match.

but if proper capitalization is what @alequetzalli suggests, then just apply it and update diagram accordingly please @Florence-Njeri

Reviewer: ok, let's keep it as is then in this doc 😄

> 2. The **Generator** sends to the **Parser** the **asyncapiString** which is a stringified version of the original **AsyncAPI document**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The **generator** sends to the **parser** the **asyncapiString** which is a stringified version of the original **AsyncAPI document**. 
```

> 3. The **Parser** validates the format of the **asyncapiString** using OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The **parser** validates the format of the **asyncapiString** using OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schemas.
```

> 4. If the **asyncapiString** is valid, the **Parser** manipulates it and returns a a set of helper functions and properties and bundles them into an **asyncapi** variable that is an instance of the **AsyncAPI document**. The helper functionas and properties make it easier to access the contents of the **AsyncAPI document** in the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If the **asyncapiString** is valid, the **Parser** manipulates it, returns a set of helper functions and properties, and bundles them into an **asyncapi** variable that is an instance of the **AsyncAPI document**. The helper functions and properties make it easier to access the contents of the **AsyncAPI document** in the template.
```

> 5. The **Generator** then passes the **params** which are template specific options used to customize the output ,the **Template files** and the **asyncapi** which collectively make up the **Template Context**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The **Generator** then passes the **params**, which are template specific options used to customize the output, the **Template files**, and the **asyncapi** which collectively make up the **Template Context**.
```

> 6. The **Template Context** is then passed to the **Render Engine**. The **Render Engine** then injects all the dynamic values from the **Template Context** to the **Template files**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The **template context** is then passed to the **render engine**. The **render engine** then injects all the dynamic values from the **template context** to the **template files**.
```

   
``` mermaid
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    C[Parser]
    D[Render Engine]
    E[Template] --> B
    F[Params] --> B
    G[AsyncAPI Document] --> B
  subgraph Generator
    B -->| params | A
    B--> | asyncapiString| C
    B -->| originalAsyncAPI | A
    C --> | asyncapi -> AsyncAPIDocument type | A
    B--> | Template Files | D
    A --> D
  end
```

> ## Template Context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Template context
```

@Florence-Njeri, we observe sentence capitalization for headers and page titles 😊

> The Generator passes to the render engine extra context, which you can access in templates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator passes extra context to the render engine, which you can access in templates:
```

> - **`originalAsyncAPI`** is a String of original AsyncAPI document that the user passed to the Generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`originalAsyncAPI`** is a string of the original AsyncAPI document that the user passed to the generator.
```

- **`asyncapi`** is a parsed AsyncAPI document with all additional functions and properties. You should use it to access document contents.

> - **`params`** is an Object with all the parameters passed to the Generator by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`params`** is an object with all the parameters passed to the generator by the user.
```
